---
title: 3. OKR -  objectives and key results.
share: "true"
created: 2025-06-09
tags:
  - pm
---
## OKR
OKR stands for objectives and key results.
OKR invented by [Andy Grove](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Grove) 
OKR is part of [[Project]]
Without OKR projects & teams usually lack sense of purpose to inspire  teams!
transformational teams combine ambitions, passions and purpose.
OKRs Defined

- OKRs combine a goal (objective) and a metric (key result) to determine a measurable outcome.
- Objectives define the desired outcome, while key results define when the objective has been met.

Using OKRs in Project Management

- OKRs help clarify project goals and deliverables, establish project scope, and motivate teams.
- Project-level OKRs support organizational goals and help teams prioritize tasks.

Creating Effective OKRs

- Objectives should be aspirational, aligned with organizational goals, action-oriented, concrete, and significant.
- Key results should be time-bound, measurable, and challenging, indicating progress and defining objective achievement.
## OKR in Google 
	**Objectives are the “Whats.”  Directions They:**
	- express goals and intents;
	- are aggressive yet realistic;
	- must be tangible, objective, and unambiguous; should be obvious to a rational observer whether an Objective has been achieved.
	- The successful achievement of an Objective must provide clear value for Google.

Objectives: 
- significant 
- action oriented 
- inspiring 
passion means when you transform it into action
 
	** Key Results are the “Hows.” They: **
	- express measurable milestones which, if achieved, will advance Objective(s) in a useful manner to their constituents;
	- must describe outcomes, not activitie.  
	  Describe the end-use impact of these activities: “publish average and tail latency measurements from six Colossus cells by March 7,” rather than “assess Colossus latency”;
	- must include evidence of completion. This evidence must be available, credible, and easily discoverable. Examples of evidence include change lists, links to docs, notes, and published metrics reports.

** Key results: **
- Specific and time bound 
- Aggressive and realistic 
- Measurable and verifiable

In google every quarter everyone writes OKR and publish it to collective commited.

### Committed vs. aspirational OKRs
	-> Commitments are OKRs that we agree will be achieved, and we will be willing to adjust schedules and resources to ensure that they are delivered.
- _The expected score for a committed OKR is 1.0; a score of less than 1.0 requires explanation for the miss, as it shows errors in planning and/or execution _
  
	-> By contrast, aspirational OKRs express how we’d like the world to look, even though we have no clear idea how to get there and/or the resources necessary to deliver the OKR.
_- Aspirational OKRs have an expected average score of 0.7, with high variance. _

[OKR and smart-goals: the difference](https://www.whatmatters.com/resources/okrs-smart-goals-difference-between)

https://www.whatmatters.com/resources/google-okr-playbook


[IBM OKR](https://www.apptio.com/resources/ebooks/leading-your-organization-with-okrs/?utm_source=google&utm_campaign=agile-multi_ams-multi-en_high-intent_phrase&utm_medium=cpc&utm_term=okr%20strategy&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=20933995603&gbraid=0AAAAAD3zgNNIaWCzwoj4eV8FryK-qTGWN&gclid=Cj0KCQjwuvrBBhDcARIsAKRrkjcvtAKAXsz76gsOsKsC8sSd0bvmg56W8p3m2ewfJooUmVPWhe6XcUkaAkZjEALw_wcB) 
**Related**:  [[SMART goals]] [[5. Project success]]
